Computer Vision is at it's core is based upon images that are represented
in their mathematical form. Images are displayed as pixels arranged in a grid
pattern based on coordinates: standard X & Y axes.
Each image has a defined shape in computer vision.
This shape is defined as:
    1. An image's height in pixels
    2. An image's width in pixels
    3. The number of channels the image represents (color scale)

An example of an image shape: shape = (720, 1280, 3)
                                       720 pixel height
                                       1280 pixel width
                                       3 channels of color based upon the colorscale (BGR, RGB, greyscale, etc.)
                                         (An example of BGR: channel Blue, channel Green, channel Red
                                          each pixel has an array of values that will determine the color that is
                                          displayed.)
                                       Example: a pure red pixel in RGB [255, 0, 0]
                                       Each color, in standard 8 bit images, can have a value between 0 and 255.
                                       In binary images pixel value is either 0 or 1, or sometimes 0 or 255.
                                       In 16 bit images pixel values range from 0 to 65535.
                                       Each color channel is in essence a 2D matrix composed of the height * width
                                       Red channel: 720 * 1280
                                       Green channel: 720 * 1280
                                       Blue channel: 720 * 1280
                                       Combine these together to get your full image with the outputted colors.
An image's dimension: height * width, determines the size of the image in a given frame or window.
The main difference between 8 bit (1 byte) and 16 bit (2 byte) images are that 16 bit images
can have much more precision and detail when it comes to displaying the color. Since the range of values is much
greater the pixels can be adjusted for more granular control of color.

Binary images are in essence black & white images. The 0 value is black (lack of color) and 1, 255 value is white
(all wavelengths of color).

Python basics for starting with images in Computer Vision:
    1: Pip install opencv-contrib-python, import cv2
    2. You will need to define an image path to read an image
    3. use cv2.imread("your image path") for reading images, image is loaded into memory
    4. use cv2.imwrite("your location path", "path of image to be written") for
        writing an image to a directory. Do this after performing an operation on the image
        resizing.
    5. To visualize an image, use cv2.imshow("name your window", "image path").
    6. In addition, you will need to run the cv2.waitKey("time in milliseconds") or use 0
        to wait indefinitely for any key press.
    7. To resize an image, use cv2.resize("filename of resized image", tuple of new image shape)
    8. One thing to keep in mind: whenever a color image is loaded into memory with cv2, cv2 automatically
       converts the colorspace to BGR.

Python basics for videos
    1. Same installation as for images
    2. Define the video path in a variable
    3. call the cv2.VideoCapture("video path variable") to load the video into memory
    4. with the now video object, you will need to read each frame with video.read()
    5. this video.read() will return 2 values: a boolean if there is a returned frame
        and the image in that frame. Usually stored under ret & frame variables
    6. You need to loop over all the frames now to be able to view it as a video.
        Use a while loop, initialize the ret variable to True, then use it as the loop
        variable. The loop will terminate when the ret value is False, meaning the end of the
        video.
    7. Inside of the while loop, this is where you call video.read() and store the returned values
       in ret, frame. Use an if statement like if ret:, otherwise when the video finishes and there
       is no more frames to return you will get an error message.
    8. Next call cv2.imshow(frame) to display the current frame in the video capture.
    9. Now call cv2.waitKey but for the argument to wait is different from an image. Best practice
        is to find out the frames per second of the video. Example 25 fps. Waitkey() takes the
        arguments in milliseconds: 1000 milliseconds in a second. 1000 (milliseconds) / 25 (fps) = 40
        40 milliseconds would be the appropriate time to wait. Other values might show the video being
        sluggish or skipping frames.
    10. The video will run as if it's in realtime. Once the ret variable becomes False, the if block
        will skip and the while loop will stop.
    11. You should also call video.release() and cv2.destroyAllWindows() after the while loop
        so that opencv can release the memory it has allocated for the video capture object.
Image resizing and cropping is performed in a similar manner to image viewing.
Use the cv2.resize("image path", tuple with new dimensions)
To crop an image it's similar to slicing a string, use square bracket syntax with : for each axis
Example   cropped_img = img[120:570, 100:400], be sure to use pixel dimensions that are within the
overall image's dimensions.

The default colorspace when images are read with cv2.imread() is the BGR colorspace.
You can change colorspaces with the cv2.cvtColor("original image", "cv2 color conversion attribute")
You can change to gray scale from color as well, one thing to remember is that when you change
to gray scale the image channels go from 3 channels to just 1 channel. Instead of Blue, Green, Red
you have just one channel of color from black to white.
For more intuition on this, converting from color to gray scale condenses the information the
BGR pixels display into just a single channel of pixels.

Blurring is another technique in computer vision, it can be used to blur an image or
remove noise from an image.
A high level intuition in blurring is that it involves taking averages of pixels in a given
area and assigning that new averaged value in place of the absolute pixel value that it originally
had.
Different blurring functions will apply the blurs slightly differently.
cv2.blur("loaded image", "kernel size") will apply a standard blur technique to an image.
The kernel, which is a matrix of numbers representing pixels, size designates
how many pixels in the given area are going to be averaged and this averaged matrix of pixels
will also be applied to each kernel size of pixels and the image will be processed with these new
pixels values. The result will be a blur. Typically the kernel size is an odd number, but not always,
this is so there is a center pixel number to be averaged, it's essentially a center point for the blur filter.
The Gaussian blur requires a sigmaX argument, this defines how much the blur is spread out horizontally.
If a zero value is passed, then cv2 will calculate this manually, otherwise the values inputted will apply.
Higher values are stronger blur, lower values are less blur.
Median blur method only takes the img and single k-size, instead of array of k-size values, arguments.
This method will replace each pixel in the given area with the "median" value of the pixels, instead of
calculating the average like the other methods.

Thresholds are useful for certain types of object detection, binary images (black and white) are
the most common. A binary image makes it easier for object detection and object analysis.

The global threshold method cv2.threshold("img", "threshold value", "max value", "threshold type"
(typically CV2.THRESHOLD_BINARY)) applies this threshold to the whole image.

The adaptive threshold method cv2.adaptiveThreshold("max value", "adaptive method", "threshold type",
"block size (needs to be an odd number)", and "constant for threshold equation") will have CV2 automatically apply a threshold
to the image and it will try to correct the image with different threshold values in
different areas of the image based on the arguments passed.

There are two types of adaptive thresholds mainly used: Gaussian & mean
This method will move through the image, like a sliding window across the image, making
many different thresholds all over the image.

